@section Where can I get more information?

@subsection Where's the documentation?

There are links to quite a lot of it on the main Cygwin project web
page: @file{http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/}.  Be sure to at least
read any 'Release Notes' or 'Readme' or 'read this' links on the main
web page, if there are any.

There is a comprehensive Cygwin User's Guide at
@file{http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/cygwin-ug-net/cygwin-ug-net.html}
and an API Reference at
@file{http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/cygwin-api/cygwin-api.html}.

There is an interesting paper about Cygwin from the 1998 USENIX Windows
NT Workshop Proceedings at
@file{http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/usenix-98/cygwin.html}.

You can find documentation for the individual GNU tools at
@file{http://www.fsf.org/manual/}.  (You should read GNU manuals from a
local mirror, check @file{http://www.fsf.org/server/list-mirrors.html}
for a list of them.)

@subsection What Cygwin mailing lists can I join?

Comprehensive information about the Cygwin mailing lists can be found at
@file{http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin/lists.html}.

To subscribe to the main list, send a message to
cygwin-subscribe@@sources.redhat.com.  To unsubscribe from the 
main list, send a message to cygwin-unsubscribe@@sources.redhat.com.
In both cases, the subject and body of the message are ignored.

Similarly, to subscribe to the Cygwin annoucements list, send a message
to cygwin-announce-subscribe@@sources.redhat.com.  To unsubscribe,
send a message to cygwin-announce-unsubscribe@@sources.redhat.com.

If you are going to help develop the Cygwin library by volunteering for
the project, you will want to subscribe to the Cygwin developers list,
called cygwin-developers.  If you are contributing to Cygwin tools &
applications, rather than the library itself, then you should subscribe
to cygwin-apps.  The same mechanism as described for the first two lists
works for these as well.  Both cygwin-developers and cygwin-apps are
by-approval lists.

There is a searchable archive of the main mailing list at
@file{http://sources.redhat.com/ml/cygwin/}.  There is an alternate
archive, also searchable, at @file{http://www.delorie.com/archives/}.

Cygwin mailing lists are not gatewayed to USENET, so anti-spam measures
in your email address are neither required nor appreciated.  Also, avoid
sending HTML content to Cygwin mailing lists.

@subsection Posting Guidelines (Or: Why won't you/the mailing list answer my questions?)

If you follow these guidelines, you are much more likely to get a
helpful response from the Cygwin developers and/or the Cygwin community at
large:

@itemize @bullet
@item Read the User's Guide and the FAQ first.
@item Check the mailing list archives.  Your topic may have come up
before.  (It may even have been answered!)  Use the search facilities
at the links above.  Try the alternate site if the main archive is not
producing search results.
@item Explain your problem carefully and completely.  "I installed Blah
and it doesn't work!" wastes everybody's time.  It provides no
information for anyone to help you with your problem.  You should
provide:

@itemize @bullet
@item A problem statement:  How does it behave, how do you think it
should behave, and what makes you think it's broken?  (Oh yeah, and what
is @emph{"it"}?)
@item Information about your Windows OS ("Win95 OSR2" or "NT4/SP3" or
"Win2K" or "Win98 SE" or ...).
@item Details about your installation process, or attempts at same.  (Internet or
Directory install?  If the former, exactly when and from what mirror?
If the latter, which packages did you download?  Which version of
setup.exe?  Any subsequent updates?)
@item Details about your Cygwin setup, accomplished by @emph{pasting}
the output of 'cygcheck -s -v -r' into your message.  (Do not send the
output as a file attachment.)
@item A valid return address, so that a reply doesn't require manual editing of
the 'To:' header.
@end itemize

@item Your message must be relevant to the list.  Messages that are
@emph{not} directly related to Cygwin are considered off-topic and are
unwelcome.  For example, the following are off-topic:

@itemize @bullet
@item General programming language questions
@item General Windows programming questions
@item General UNIX shell programming questions
@item General application usage questions
@item How to make millions by working at home
@item Announcements from LaserJet toner cartridge suppliers
@end itemize

@end itemize

If you do not follow the above guidelines, you may still elicit a
response, but you may not appreciate it!

Inquiries about support contracts and commercial licensing should go to
info@@cygnus.com.  If you want to purchase the Cygwin 1.0 CD-ROM, visit
@file{http://www.cygnus.com/cygwin/} or write to
cygwin-info@@cygnus.com.  While not strictly @emph{unappreciated} in the
main cygwin list, you'll get the information you need more quickly if
you write to the correct address in the first place.

Beyond that, perhaps nobody has time to answer your question.  Perhaps
nobody knows the answer.

